In the last lecture, we already called register to register a synchronization task
but this alone won't do anything, for one because we have no counterpart in the service worker file but
also because we don't pass any information, we don't know which data we want to synchronize.
So that's what I'll do next and for that, we can basically think about the data we would want to send to the server
anyways.
Now that data is right now the title and the location, the two things we fetched from the input fields.
Therefore I will create a new variable which I'll name post and this will just be a Javascript object.
Now I will add two properties here,
title and this shall of course be title input value,
we check that it is valid and the location which shall be title input, excuse me not title input, location
input value.
I'll add a third property, an ID and here I want to use the current date which I'll turn into a string
with toIsoString and
this is just some identifier I want to use,
I wouldn't need to do that but I want to create a unique identifier which is why I take the date here.
So with that, I'll set up the post I want to pass eventually,
now I need to store that in indexedDB.
The reason why I use indexedDB is, we can't pass it to the register method,
the sync manager doesn't have a built-in database, so we need to use one of the databases we already have,
indexedDB and we already wrote this utility.js file with some useful functions we can use
and writeData seems promising to store some data in there, the data
we want to send with the synchronization tasks later. writeData can be used because in our index.html
file, we import feed.js after we import the utility.js file which is the file where we define
these utility methods, so we can safely use writeData in feed.js.
So there, I will call writeData and writeData takes two arguments, the store we want to access and the
post we want to write or the data we want to write. Now regarding the store we want to access, I have to go
to utility.js and have a look at the object stores we set up, right now that's only one, posts
and this is not the store I want to use because this is the store which is therefore caching posts we
fetch from the server.
Now I want to use a new object store which is there for synchronization tasks,
so basically to store the data in our sync queue.
For that, I will duplicate that code to create a new object store and I will create a new one which
I'll name sync posts and I also will set up that there will be an ID property which uniquely identifies
each task or each entry.
So sync posts is the new object store which is there to store all the posts I want to synchronize and back
in feed.js,
I now can use that post or that store, excuse me, that sync post store.
So writeData will go to sync posts, this newly created object store and the data of course is post
and in writeData, I have all the logic to go through that and store that in my store.
Now with that, writeData of course returns promise which will resolve once this finished successfully
and actually it's inside this function here in the first then block where I want to register the synchronization
task because I only want to do this if I successfully wrote data to indexedDB, otherwise I have the task
set up but the data isn't there.
So this is what I want to do,
this allows me to make sure that the data is stored and that the synchronization task is registered.
Now there's one other thing I want to do here and that is in the index.html file, at the bottom you
see this confirmation toast div, this is just a feature of the CSS and Javascript library I use, material
design lite and it allows me to show a little information message to the user, that we did successfully
synchronize this or store this for synchronization.
So I'll chain another then call and therefore I will return service worker register which also returns a
promise and this will resolve once we did successfully register this synchronization task
and here I now want to get access to that snack bar container, snack bar simply is the name of this notification
feature,
so this element here at the bottom,
this feature we use here from that CSS library and we can see, it has an ID of confirmation toast
div. So let's use that with document query selector to select by that ID and then I want to
output some data and there the library I'm using, again this material design lite library requires
me to have a Javascript object with a message where I say your post was saved for syncing and I will now
use my snack bar container, call material snack bar, this is a property provided by that third-party package I'm using
and I can call show snack bar here and pass my data and this will simply output a nice visual feedback
to the user.
I'll also catch any errors we have so that I can at least see in the console if something fails,
so I will call console log error. Important, this part
with that snack bar is not related to background synchronization at all,
it's just a feature I added here to have a nice way of showing the user that something happened,
it's purely optional.
This and the indexedDB part, that's the important part.